Congratulations, very happy to hear the good news. Well deserved. So proud of you. Well done. How are you feeling? Thank you.

I feel okay, but the problem is I don't know if I get the visa and time or that. So that is there. When is the reopening, August 24th? And then I can go till September 9th. So that's the last day I can go.

If I have to shift it to next year, I have to tell it by August 17th. So, if I don't get the visa by the 17th, I have to defer to next year. Usually those kinds of things are allowed as well. So let's not worry too much yet because one has started the visa application and the other things, I'm sure you've already started undergoing those processes.

Sorry, just a moment. So, you've already started it and how long does it generally tend to take? You're going on a student visa, right? Yes.

Have you spoken with someone in the process? Do you have a travel agent or someone that you're booking through? What are they seeing? They said they will call me in one day to tell me what the possible possibility is that I can go with this semester or next semester.

Okay, let's leave it to that. We have all backup options as well. This is a university you really wanted to get into and the fact that you've secured it itself shows very good things. Even with respect to the visa process and other things, there's not so much that is in our control. There is so much to do with the embassy, the way in which they process certain things.

But what we can do is the moment we get the notification that we've made it through, we'll start the process and the rest of it. Let's wait and see. Worst case scenario, you still have that seat.

And even if I'm talking about worst case scenario, we know that the seat is still yours and there are still ways in which we can utilize the time and see what best we can do with some of these things as well. So let's not worry about how anxious you feel about all of this. You're feeling anxious? Yeah, that is not the actual reason behind the anxiousness. The problem is my mother is in a dilemma either to send me or not. Sometimes she will be like, "You can go," sometimes she's like crying and saying, "Don't go." I'll be sad. I don't know if I may die also with that sadness. She cannot accept this operation and she feels overwhelming and couldn't think out of that. Whatever she does, she just feels like something is suffocating her so much. She even asked him, "Can I go to some psychiatrist and take medications for this?" I don't understand how to tell her. I told her everything, but sometimes she's okay and sometimes she's not. And that is one of the reasons that makes me worried about these things.

This is only the thing regarding the university and stuff. But there is one more thing that is after I got this admit letter two three days later. My friend sent me a video of three women dancing, which could be like she was in a bright costume, which means she might get engaged or get married. That triggered me a little bit. There is not a big impact, but there are some issues with that. I'm overthinking and remunerating over the same thing again and again.

Got it. Both these things you're saying are quite understandable as well, right? Even for your mother, for your entire life, right? I don't think they've been separated from you even when you came to Bangalore. Sometimes it's a part of the process, right? It might not be easy for them to let go and stuff like that, but it is a part of the process, right? It's going to be hard for you as well. There's no denying that, right? When all of us move out of home for the first time. It is going to be a little challenging.

Can we remind ourselves of our intention once again? Is your intention to hurt your family? Not at all, right? What is your intention behind making this shift?

My intention is to study a bit more about the field which I am currently and then get a better place. I mean, doesn't mean that India is not a good place, but I prefer a clean environment, something a little bit better.

I would take my parents with me whenever possible, as soon as possible. All of those are noble intentions. They are not selfish, they are something.

I remember asking you in one of the sessions that you are doing this only because you want to show someone, maybe your ex, that I'm doing better, somewhere. You had made those kinds of aspects, but you did see that even before this girl came into your life, you were very sure about the fact that you wanted to go abroad. It's something that you have dreamed of. It's something that you have worked towards.

So, can we tell ourselves to:
* Remind ourselves that it's going to be a little anxiety provoking for you because it's the first time you're trying this, right?
* Remind ourselves that it's going to be a little anxiety provoking for you because it's the first time you're leaving the country.
* Apply to a new university, right?
* Join our first job?

There's always a little bit of anxiety associated with it, but we also know that there is adeeper intention behind why we wanted to do this as well. That is important and needs to be kept in mind for us.

Second thing is, I know that your mom is saying some of these things, and I'm sure it's very distressing for you to watch it because it is hard for us. We don't want our parents to feel a certain way, but do you also feel that this was necessary for you?

So for example, either you could listen to your mom and not make the move, but you could also help her understand that it's new for me as well. It's also a shift for me and we will still find a way to be connected. I am not doing this because I don't want to be with you all, but we will make it work.

We will make sure that I'm still on call. I will video call you and whenever possible, you will come. There are some things that can be worked out. If your mom feels that talking to a professional would be helpful, she can always do that if you want help with Tamil speaking reference. I'm more than happy to help you with that as well, maybe just to help with that transition so that she also has space to speak about this. If she feels that is something that would help her, let's always search for that as well.

You don't have to take that whole burden only on yourself. I have to take care of a few things:
* Make sure that she's okay
* Ensure that you're already doing too a very large extent
* Not involve too much in that as well

But I said to talk to your mom and tell yourself that it is sad for me, right? I'm also leaving a country that I've grown, and I'm also leaving everything that is familiar, but I am doing this because my purpose and my intention is something else that I want to achieve through all of this and that is why you're doing it. It's not because of anything else. Right?

Second thing, Patricia, when your friend sent you this video of your ex and to other girls, you said it made you feel overwhelmed. Is that what it made you feel? Suddenly, I feel like I might go back to a sad state again. That's interesting because you said that feeling that I might go back to a sad state. When did this video thing happen, Bartha?24th, 25th July, June.24? Okay. So maybe a week or so before, right? If I'm not mistaken.

And have you gone back to that sad state? Have you gone back to those initial states in which I met you? No, it's not completely, but I would say 20%, 30% is still not a majority. If you told me 100% I went back to it, I would still ask you right now, are you still in that 100%? No, it would have come out of it a little bit, right?

So what I'm trying is, we can either live by completely avoiding everything as much as possible, right? But eventually it's very hard to only keep avoiding. There might be certain times in which a mutual friend might upload something, there might be certain situations in which say a friend sends you something, right?

But at the same time, is that going to bring back certain memories? Of course. And I don't want to lie to you and say that it's not going to bring back any memories, right? It will bring back some good memories, bad memories, everything associated with it. Because at the end of the day, it was a relationship that meant a lot to you, but which did not work out for a whole lot of reasons, isn't it?

So, whenever there is a trigger, you might remember something, but it's more about where do I go forward from this. I can either decide to go back or I can decide to go forward. But what I'm hearing you say is that you decided to move forward. Did that affect you a little bit? Yes, it did. And the reason it affected you is because you're a human being. You are someone with a very active functioning frontal lobe, right? It would be great if we did not have our memory operated like a switch. Whenever I want, I switch it on, whenever I want, I can switch it off. But fortunately, or unfortunately, that's not how we human beings work, right? This is where we bring in our element of agency. Some of the components that really help us understand that you can go back but you're choosing not to. You're choosing to look forward, right?

So, can we remind ourselves that of course it triggered me because it is a trigger. It's not because you're doing something wrong. Of course it triggered me because this is something which is naturally triggering. But in what ways can I remind myself it is also different right now? So can you tell me now, verbally tell me right now.

What is different about you, what all is different about the situation? A trigger always means we go back to that situation. It's very important to distinguish and tell ourselves that right now it's a whole different situation. So, can you tell me about that? Can you tell me what is different about you in this particular situation? I have changed a lot from day to day, and then whatever things happened, I cannot change anyway. I should remember that whatever I have done to my most possible way. I wouldn't have been better or anything. So I should not regret that.

I understand it is not me who thinks about that thing and it is my illness that OCD is making me think about the same thing again and again. And part of me knows that I can come out of it easily, but somewhat I'm getting scared in the middle. That is what I feel. I don't know. I mean, it's like I already solved a problem. But still, I feel like I want to solve the same problem again and again. But I already fixed it, so I don't have to worry about it. Right.

And this is also an area where we can tell ourselves that this is our OCD, right? Let's label it as an OCD thought. The moment we label it, we know that this guy comes up and acts up every now and then, but that doesn't mean see, every time, you remember earlier when you and I started with that dog and that biscuit analogy. Every time a dog barks if he gives up biscuit, what is the dog going to do? It's going to continue barking. But a couple of times if I tell myself the dog is barking, let me not give a biscuit. Maybe for the first couple of minutes the dog's barking is going to get very loud, but eventually it will give up and go away. Right?

So every time you have this thought that I want to solve it, whenever that sort of comes up, if you give in to that part, it's equally into you throwing the biscuit. On the other hand, if you're able to tell metell tell yourself what you're telling me right now. Yes, this is my OCD. It wants me to engage, but I know that this is my OCD thought and I may not engage with it. It is just my OCD that is speaking instead.

Let me just continue with whatever it is that I was doing. Maybe one, two, three, four, five times you might have to repeat it, but eventually that thought will give up because that thought is like Pant's not paying attention to it. So what is the point of constantly? What is the point, right? Like we all know, sometimes if somebody does not give us attention, we just leave it at some point and your thought is going to do the exact same thing. And that is what we want as well. That is exactly what would work for us, and that is exactly what we want as well in that particular situation. So, remind yourself again that yes, of course, you are a little scared, right? But what do you think that fear really wants? Let me ask you that. What do we feel that fear really wants? I don't know exactly. Maybe you want me to be sad. But I don't know what the purpose of being sad in that play is, but still, making me scared and making me sad about that.

Okay, I got a good university. Now know that I have to link to this with that particular she's going to get married. So, it's like again, I'm just linking those both those things and feelings are about it. Absolutely.

So, which is your fear also wanting at this moment? What your fear really also wants is just a sense of reassurance that that is not going to happen. And can you talk to your fear? Why is fear as an emotion also there? It is protective, right? Fear is coming as a very sort of protective emotion, right? So, which is why we need to protectively take care of you, right? Protectively it is just trying to say that you remember last time how much it hurt, right? What if it happens again? Think of fear as a small child. It's like a previous scared version of you, right? And do we want to scold that previous version? No, right? We don't want to scold that previous version, but we want to hold it with so much gentleness and gently what can we tell that fear, right? Gentlely, can we talk to that fear and say that, hey, I know where you're operating from and I know you're doing this because you want to take care of me, right? But at the same time, we got this. Right? At the same time, there is so much that we have done. There are so many things that have gotten better for us.

So because of that, let's keep this again as a priority and see how best we can do that. Prioritize that feeling of I have come a long way. I have worked on it and I have come a long way in terms of making this better. 

With respect to everything else we have spoken about, even the fact that this thought came like your friend sent that video, did you keep watching that video over and over again? Was there anything of that sort that happened? Initially, I watched it like five to 10 times and then deleted the video so I won't watch it again. 

Great. And how many times did you watch that video initially when you got it? Yeah, it will be like 10 times mostly. Okay. Next time, let's try again as much. I'm glad that you deleted it, right? But it's again not avoidance. We watch it once because of course when someone sells a video, we don't know what it is, right? So we might out of that curiosity, we might watch it. 

But as soon as you watched it, I think that the anxiety started for you, right? So, as soon as you watch that video, engage in the same set of conversations that you and I have been engaging in right now. Yeah, that fear is coming, oh no, what if I go back to that previous place, let's be gentle towards that fear. Let's also tell that fear that hey, it's I know it's hard. Right? But genuinely, we have got this. We have come so far from where we were last year, right? In so many ways, you are different, just like what you said. So, it may not feel real immediately, but in that moment something happens to that fear. That fear gets a little bit of confidence. That part back then was not able to. But today's part, sitting in front of meis able to do that. So, as a result of that, let's make it happen.

As a result of that, let's:
* Slowly talk to our fear and tell our fear that there's nothing for us to worry about.
* Sort of see how best we can do this.

Keeping this in mind, do you think that the labeling aspect, the moment you also said that everything is solved, but again, I feel like solving it will be no part, very clearly that's coming from the US. Violence. So is it even at that moment, can you repeat it? Okay, this is my OCD that's acting up again. So verbalize that and tell yourself that. You might have it, maybe not just work once. You might find yourself repeating it. You might have to say it two, three times. But after you say it, make sure you still don't throw a biscuit. Make sure you still don't engage with that thought, engage with it emotionally, continue doing whatever work it is that you were doing. So in that situation it becomes quite important.

Oh, yeah. Do you have a session with Dr. Lanya booked, or when is your next session with Dr. Lanya? I guess next month probably. Sorry. Next Monday.

Okay, all right. So anyway, consult with Dr. Lavanya as well because I am also not very sure that if you go abroad then how the medications might be a little... but anyway, you can speak with her. She will also, we can see whether there's any contact that you have, or how best we can navigate through it. We can look into therapy as a maintenance aspect, and I can still continue. We take up international therapy, so maybe in that initial month once we're settled in. However, we can always see how best. You don't have to worry too much about that. That's something we can always see how best to navigate through.

How is your spending coming along? How has it been on that front? It's better than before. And even about lending money or taking the money back, which you had lent, are these certain things that you feel you've been able to handle a little better as well? I can do better in that case.

You're able to, and this one person, I remember you saying that had borrowed a lot of money from you, but have you been able to get the money back? No, not only me, there are most of people who couldn't get it from him, but it's very bad, so we let it be like that for now.

Okay. Fair enough. But next time with other people, let's be a little careful. I know you're doing this out of the goodness of your heart. This doesn't make you a bad person. It's okay sometimes to prioritize yourself as well, especially now, because it's okay to keep yourself. You have worked very hard on being the person that you are right now. So let's just continue with that and see how best we can do it.

Remember the few things we spoke about? How was that zoning out and other things that sometimes tend to happen? It is there, but it is not that intense and it is not that frequent. Are you able to slowly orient yourself back the moment you feel that zoning out sort of happens? Are you able to bring yourself slowly back? Yes. Great, great. That's good. I'm really glad to hear that.

So let's continue with this part and also, like I said, especially with respect to you going, you know that there is a reason you want to go. Of course, it's hard for you, it's hard for your mother, right? Talk to her. Tell her that it is a new shift, but that doesn't mean that I'm leaving forever and I'm never going to be in touch.

If you feel that your mom might benefit with some kind of psychological support, you can let me know. I have colleagues from Tamil Nadu as well. So if it's online or however it is, we can see how best so that she doesn't have to feel that she's all alone in dealing with this.

Does that sound okay? When do you want to meet next? Do you want to meet after three weeks again or how would you say that you would like? Yeah, three weeks is fine. So we are looking at sevens, 14s, 21st works. Yes. Tuesday. That's a Tuesday. Does that work?

Oops. Okay, great. Just give me a second. I don't know why I'm not able to, I will share this with you right away. So, we're looking at:
* 21st
* 10:30

Yes. I've shared it. Did you see that? Yes, ma'am. Yeah. So anything in between, of course, you can reach out and let me know. Sure. Yeah. And then we'll see. By then you will have some idea about the visa things and other things hopefully and we'll see how best we can navigate through it.

Sure. Okay, all three weeks. Bye.